This is the editor screen for attack targets and aiming.

Use the Up and Down arrow keys (or PgUp, PgDn, Home, and End) to navigate through the menu.

Use the Left and Right arrow keys to change values, or you can type in numbers.

You can also hold the ALT key and press the left and right arrow keys to change which attack you are editing, or while holding ALT you can type an attack ID number.

Aim Math: Determines the chance for the attack to hit the target. For Normal, Poor, and Bad aiming, the attacker's Aim and target's Dodge stats are first modified by some multipliers then random values nearby (+/- 75%) to those values are compared. So if the Aim and Dodge stats are equal, for 'Bad' aiming there is a 50% chance to hit. Here is an explanation of other accuracy values.

-Never Misses: Ensures that the
  attack always hits no matter what.
  (It might still fail due to other
  conditions.) Great for many
  purposes, such as healing spells
  or attacks that serve other
  purposes.

-Magic: Uses different stats to
  emphasize magical aptitude and
  enemy resistace to magic to
  determine whether an attack hits,
  rather than normal accuracy stats.
  Its use is rather self-explanatory.

-Percentage based formulas: These
  formulas use the stats as
  percentages out of 100 to determine
  the success rate of attacks.  The
  symbol * here means that the first
  percentage is taken into account,
  and then if it was successful the
  second percentage is used to decide
  if the target avoided the attack.


Target Class: This controls who the attack can be used on.

* Enemy - For heroes this means the
  attack is targetted to enemies. For
  enemies this means that the attack
  is targetted to heroes.

* Ally - For heroes this means that
  the attack is targeted to heroes.
  For enemies this means that the
  attack is targetted to enemies.

* Self - This means the attack can
  only be targetted to the attacker.

* All - This means the attack can be
  targeted to anyone, hero or enemy.

* Ally (including dead) - For heroes
  this means that the attack can
  target any hero including the ones
  who are already dead. This is
  intended for "Life" potions or
  spells. For enemies, this is no
  different from "Ally".

* Ally not self - Just like "Ally"
  but the attacker is not permitted
  to target itself. Only team-mates
  can be targetted.

* Revenge (last to hit attacker) -
  This means the attack can only
  target the last hero or enemy that
  has dealt damage to the attacker.

* Revenge (whole battle) - This means
  the attack can target any hero or
  enemy who has dealt damage to the
  attacker over the course of the
  entire battle.

* Previous target - This means the
  attack can only target the same
  target as whatever attack was most
  recently used by the attacker.

* Recorded target - This means that
  the attack will only be able to
  target any targets that the
  attacker has previously hit with an
  attack that has the "Store Target"
  bitset turned on. If no "Store
  Target" attack has been used by the
  attacker, then the attacker will
  not be able to use this attack at
  all.

* Dead Allies (hero only) - This
  attack can only target dead heroes.
  If no heroes are dead, the attack
  will be unusable. The attack cannot
  be used by enemies.

* Thankvenge (last to cure attacker)
  This means the attack will only be
  able to target the last hero or
  enemy who cured the attacker. If
  the attacker has not been cured in
  the current battle, the attack will
  be unusable.

* Thankvenge (whole battle) - This
  means the attack will be able to
  target any hero or enemy who has
  dealt negative damage (cure) to the
  attacker over the course of the
  entire battle. If the attacker has
  never been cured, the attack will
  be unusable.

Target Setting: This controls how the attack can be targetted if more than one valid target is available in the chosen target class.

* Focused - This means that only one
  target can be chosen.

* Spread - This means the attack will
  target all available valid targets
  within the target class.

* Optional Spread - This means the
  attacker will have the choice of
  whether they want to choose a
  single target or all available
  targets.

* Random Roulette - Like "Focus" this
  chooses only a single target, but
  the player will not be allowed to
  choose which target. The targetting   cursor will rapidly change.
  If used by an enemy, this is not
  any different from "Focus", and if
  used as part of a chain, this will
  simply pick a random target.

* First Target - This always targets
  the first valid target in the
  target class. It is not random.

Prefer Target: For heroes, this affects which target the target selection cursor starts on. For enemies this affects which target the enemy will choose from its available targets.

* Default - For heroes, starts the
  cursor on the first valid target.
  For enemies, the enemy will choose
  a random target.

* First - For heroes this is the same
  as "default". For enemies they will
  always choose the first valid
  target.

* Closest - Chooses the target
  closest to the attacker.

* Farthest - Chooses the target
  farthest away from the attacker.

* Random - For heroes, starts the
  cursor on a random valid target.
  For enemies this is the same as
  "default".

* Weakest - Chooses the target with
  the weakest stat. The stat is
  chosen below.

* Strongest - Chooses the target with
  the strongest stat. The stat is
  chosen below.

* Weakest% - Chooses the target with
  the weakest stat as a percentage of
  the target's maximum for that
  attack.

* Strongest% - Chooses the target
  with the strongest stat as a
  percentage of the target's maximum
  for that stat.

Weak/Strong Stat: This only applies if you have chosen "weakest" "strongest" "weakest%" or "strongest%" as the "Prefer Target" setting. Valid values are "same as target stat", or any specific stat, or any affliction register such as "poision" or "mute".


Note that if the attack is used as part of a chain, and both the target class and the target setting are the same as the previous attack, and the preferred target is "Default" then the attack will use the exact same target as the previous attack.
