This menu lets you import master palettes. Each master palette also has its own set of UI colors.

Only one master palette can be used at a time. The ability to import multiple palettes into your game exists so that you can switch to a different palette using the loadpalette script command, such as for some self-contained section of the game like a sequence of backdrops.

The active editing palette is the master palette being used for the current editing session; this setting is not saved.

You can replace the selected palette, or add a new one by pressing Right at the last palette.

Master palettes can be imported from:
-a paletted .BMP or .PNG image of
 any size (normally 256-color, but
 even a 16-color .BMP can be used),
 in which case the palette of the
 image is used and the pixels are
 ignored. (So you can use a
 screenshot of a game to import its
 master palette!)
-a 16x16 .BMP or .PNG image where
 each pixel is a color (the alpha
 channel is ignored), 256 in
 total. It doesn't matter what
 bitdepth the image is.
-or the old uneditable .MAS format.

The Export option on this menu saves a palette as a 16x16 24-bit .BMP.

Each color used as a UI color or as part of a Box Style is outlined when selecting a relevant menu option.

When a master palette is imported, its UI colors and Box Styles are automatically selected to be as similar as possible to the UI colors/styles of the active editing palette.
"Nearest-match active palette's UI data" lets you repeat this process, to copy changes from one palette to another.

"Copy active palette's UI data" basically copy-pastes UI color indices (and Box Styles) between palettes without remapping, for when you want to do something like create a darkened version of a palette and affect the user interface as well.

"Reset UI Colors to defaults" (hotkey: F4) resets all UI Colors to the nearest matches to the default colors. Use this (or press F4) if the menu text becomes unreadable.

"Reset Box Styles to defaults" resets the Box Style colors to defaults, but leaves box borders alone.
