This is the menu item detail editor. This is where you define what a menu item actually does.

*Caption - The caption is the text that will appear for this item in the menu. If you leave it blank it will be set to a default value.

*Type & Subtype - There are 5 different types of menu item.

  *Label - (previously called
   Caption) menu items have no
   special action when activated.
   There are three subtypes:
    *Selectable:
      Only used to set tags or
      to close the menu.
    *Disabled:
      Can be used for decoration
      or information (but the next
      sub-type might be better for
      that).
      Always count as disabled, which
      means the "Set tag", "Toggle
      Tag" options and "Close menu
      when activated" bits are
      ignored.
      (Warning: this used to be
      called "Unselectable", don't
      confuse that with the below...)
    *Can't be selected:
      Menu items which can't be
      selected with keyboard or mouse
      controls. They can still be
      forcibly selected with the
      "select menu item" command.

  *Special Screen - This provides
   access to all the standard
   built-in special menus.

    *Items
    *Spells
    *Status
    *Equip
    *Order
    *Team
    *Order/Team (either the Team menu
      if the "Hero Swapping Always
      Available" general preference
      bitset is turned on, otherwise
      the Order menu)
    *Map (if allowed in the Map
      General Settings)
    *Save (if allowed in the Map
      General settings)
    *Load
    *Quit
    *Volume [Obsolete]
      This lets you adjust the music
      volume, and pressing Enter
      opens a new menu with Music
      and Sound Volume options.
    *Music Volume
    *Sound Volume
    *Map (even if not allowed in Map
      General Settings)
    *Save (even if not allowed in Map
      General Settings)
    *Margins
      An option to adjust margins at
      the edges of the screen, when
      playing a game on a console
      like the Ouya which displays on
      a TV (Only appears on consoles)
    *Purchases
      (Appears only if a store has
      been set in the In-App
      Purchases menu.)
    *Fullscreen
      (Appears only if playing
      windowed, and fullscreen is
      supported)
    *Windowed
      (Appears only if playing
      fullscreen, and it is
      supported)
      You must add BOTH Fullscreen
      and Windowed menu items next to
      each other to allow players to
      switch to-and-fro.

  *Go To Menu - This menu item will
   jump to another menu when a player
   selects it. Use the subtype to
   select which menu.

  *Show Text Box - Cause a text box
   to be displayed. Use subtype to
   select which box. Note that if the
   menu has the "allow gameplay &
   scripts" bitset turned OFF then
   the text box will not appear until
   after the menu has closed. You may
   want to use the "Close menu if
   selected" menu item bitset to
   avoid that problem. Also note that
   if the "allow gameplay & scripts"
   bitset is turned ON, the text box
   will appear layered underneath
   the open menu.
   Press ENTER to browse for the text
   box, or hold CTRL or SHIFT with
   ENTER/SPACE/CLICK to edit the text
   box, or INSERT or + to quickly add
   a new text box.

  *Run script - Press ENTER on the
   subtype to browse a list of
   scripts. Note that as with text
   boxes, if the "allow gameplay &
   scripts" bitset is OFF then the
   script will not start until the
   menu has closed.
   If you select a script, then the
   arguments that will be passed to
   it are displayed underneath. Note
   that the arguments change based
   on the "Allow Gameplay & Scripts"
   menu bitset and "Close menu if
   selected" menu item bitset!
   "handle" means a menu item
   handle. The three extra data
   values are passed as args. The
   script you select can have any
   number of args; if it has more
   then the extra ones become 0.

Color: The normal text color. Each menu has its own default color. Press ENTER or SPACE for a color browser. You can also select a UI color (numbers below zero).

Disabled Color: The text color when the menu item is disabled. Each menu has its own default disabled color. Press ENTER or SPACE for a color browser. You can also select a UI color (numbers below zero).

*Enable if Tag - Press ENTER or SPACE to browse a list of tags. If you specify one or more tags conditions they must all be true for the menu item to be enabled.  Depending on the "Hide if disabled" bitset, disabled items are greyed out or hidden. Press - to toggle between requiring a tag to be ON or OFF.

*Set Tag - This tag will be turned ON or OFF when the menu item is used. Press ENTER or SPACE to browse tags. Press - to toggle between turning a tag ON and turning it OFF.

*Toggle Tag - This tag will be switch OFF if it is ON and ON if it is OFF whenever this menu item is used. Press ENTER or SPACE to browse tags.

*Bitsets - See the help screen in this submenu for details.

*Extra Data - There are 3 pieces of extra data that you can attach to each menu item here in the editor (in-game, you can add more extra data using the "resize extra" and "append extra" commands). These are just numbers. They don't mean anything unless you use them for your own special purposes from a plotscript. They are passed to triggered scripts as additional arguments.
