The script management menu allows you to access some tasks and tools related to your Plotscripts. (Check the documentation wiki at http://HamsterRepublic.com/ohrrpgce/ if you want to learn more about plotscripting)

* "Compile and/or Import plotscripts
   (.hss/.hs)"
  Imports scripts. The .hsi file for
  your game is first exported, then
  the selected scripts file (.hss
  extension recommended, .txt can
  also be used) is compiled with
  the HSpeak compiler. It's also
  possible to compile your scripts
  with HSpeak yourself and import
  the resulting .hs file.
  Importing overwrites any existing
  scripts - you must put them all in
  the same file (or 'include' them
  all in the same file) and import
  them all at once.

* "Export names for scripts (.hsi)"
  creates or updates a list of names
  (constants) that you can use while
  writing your scripts. Normally you
  don't need to manually export the
  .hsi file, as it's exported
  automatically when importing
  .hss/.txt files.

* "Export scripts backup copy"
  exports the backup copy of your
  scripts source code. Use this if
  you've accidentally lost the
  original .hss/.txt files. Normally
  you should have no use for this.
  HSpeak automatically includes a
  backup when compiling. (You can
  prevent this by passing the -n
  argument to HSpeak -- you will have
  to compile manually).
  Backup copies have been included
  by HSpeak since Ypsiliform.
  If the compiled scripts are older
  than that, then Custom will attempt
  to decompile the scripts instead,
  using the HSDECMPL tool.

* "Check where scripts are used"
  produces a list of all the places
  where your game triggers a script.

* "Find broken script triggers"
  searches for references to scripts
  that have been renamed or removed.

* "Global Script Triggers"
  Choose plotscripts to be run on
  certain special triggers like
  beginning a game or pressing the
  menu key.

* "Error display"
  Control which script errors will
  be shown at runtime. See the help
  page.

You can press F5 on this menu or on Custom's main menu to immediately recompile and reimport the last script file that you imported. (Note that scripts aren't reimported automatically by the Game runner when using `Test Game' live-previewing; you will have to press F5 in-game to reload scripts.)
