These settings disable bugfixes and features which break backwards compatibility with previous versions of the OHRRPGCE.
If one of these bits is ON, then the engine operates in a back-compatible mode.

In newly created games you normally wouldn't change any of these bitsets. When switching to a newer engine version you may want to enable new features or bugfixes by turning OFF options in this menu, but doing so may break something in your game.

{{edit_bitsets}}


"Simulate Old Levelup bonus-accretion bug" simulates an ancient bug where equipment bonuses were added to hero stats on levelup. Included for compatibility with games made before 2001!

"Simulate pushable NPC obstruction bug" simulates a bug where NPCs could walk through pushable NPCs which the player is pushing against a wall or another NPC.

"Disable better scancodes for scripts" makes some keys (mainly in the numpad) like Up and Numpad 8 indistinguishable; see "key is pressed" in the dictionary for details.

"Simulate old fail vs. element resist bit" will cause an attack's elemental resist fail conditions to ignore absorption (use the absolute value), so "fail if damage < 50%" will actually mean "fail if -50% < damage < 50%", and "< 0%" will do nothing at all!

"Don't recreate map slices when changing maps": normally when you change maps, the map slices and anything parented to them (except for the hero slices) get recreated, erasing all scripted changes. This prevents that.

"Harm tiles ignore non-caterpillar heroes" only has an effect when the caterpillar party isn't enabled. It causes only the leader of the party to to be harmed, instead of all heroes in the active party as normal, when walking over a harm tile.

"Limit maximum tags to 999" decreases the available tags from 15999 to 999. The only reason this bit exists is for backwards compatibility with old games that use the "set tag" and "check tag" plotscripting commands to manipulate NPC onetime tags. If your game is not one of those, go ahead and turn this bit OFF and enjoy access to the full range of tags.

"Simulate Bug #430" reenables a bug in Voxhumana and older releases which caused script 'wait' commands to sometimes be skipped. Some games contained bugs in their scripts (usually involving screen fades and commands causing implicit waits like "teleport to map") which were hidden by this bug.

"showtextbox is delayed" causes "show textbox" (as well as textboxes indirectly shown by "items menu" and "use item") to not be triggered until the next wait command. If off, showing a textboxes takes effect immediately, including conditionals such as setting tags. If this is off then if you attempt to show multiple textboxes during the same tick then only the last will actually trigger. But even with this bitset off you would only see the last triggered textbox so if you want to prevent your script from accidently hiding a previous textbox you should use "wait for textbox":
  wait for textbox
  show textbox (5)
"advance textbox" always happens immediately.

"Old attack positioning at bottom-left of target" causes attack animations to be displayed in the old position, at the bottom-left corner of the targeted hero/enemy. When you turn this OFF attacks are displayed centered on their target.

"Wrap map layers over edge of Crop maps" affects maps set to Map Edge Mode: Crop. Normally on a cropping map you can't see past the map edge and this bitset has no effect. When this is ON, if you view an off-map position then the map layers continue forever by wrapping around. This is only possible if you use scripting to move map layers, or if the map is smaller than the game window.

"Draw Backdrop slice above Script layer" causes normal backdrops (sl:backdrop) to be drawn above the sprite layer (sl:script layer) instead of below. This was the behaviour in Alectormancy and earlier.

"Non-turn attack delays can also cause turn delays" (turn-based battles only) emulates bug #1118, where non-blocking attacks with an attack delay (not a turn delay) could would get delayed to a future round. Normally the attack delay causes attacks to get delayed until the end of the current turn only.

{{prefbit_320x200_battle_display}}
(This bit also appears in the Battle Preference Bits menu.)

"Use old direction key tiebreaking" is turned on automatically to keep the "fake parallax" script, and other uses of the "hero will move" script working in existing games by disabling the improved handling in Ichorescent when you press multiple direction keys at once. It's turned on automatically if you have a script called "trying to move direction".

