This menu allows you to customize all the menu and interface colors. it also allows you to choose which borders are associated with each text box style.

Use the Up and Down arrow keys (or PgUp, PgDn, Home, and End) to navigate the menu.

Press the Left and Right arrows to change the colors. You can also type in color ID numbers, which go from 0 to 255.

If you press ENTER or SPACE on a color, you will see a palette browser that lets you choose a color.

You can press CTRL+D to revert a color back to its default value.

You can also find UI color options related to using multiple palettes in `General Game Data->Master Palettes'.

If you accidentally make it impossible to read the screen, either by changing the background color or the text colors, you can fix it by pressing the down arrow, then CTRL+D then the down arrow again, and CTRL+D and repeat until the menu is visible again.

"Mouse hover over menu item" is a bit special. It's the color used when you hover the mouse over items in menus which use the default 'Menu item' text color. But for menu items which are a different color, the hover color is a tinted version of the base color. Eg. if the 'Mouse hover' color is a redder version of the 'Menu item' color, then hover color will be a redder version of the menu item's normal color.

"Fadeout" options are the color to fade the screen to during a transition.
Note: Some of these can be overridden with scripts.

"Fadeout: new game" is used when you start a new game from the titlescreen or use the "reset game" command.

"Fadeout: load game" is used when loading a save.

"Fadeout: on death" occurs when you die, including in battles, or when a "gameover" timer runs out. If there's an On-Death script defined, it's run instead (but if you died in-battle, it will still fade out first). (Note: the "game over" command doesn't do a fade.)

"Fadeout: quitting game" happens when the player uses the Quit option, and when quitting the program.

"Fadeout: door" is for doors (can be overridden with optional argument to "use door" command).

"Fadeout: stay at inn" happens when restoring HP/MP at an Inn (either from a textbox or a shop, unless the shop has an Inn Script).

"Fadeout: enter battle" starts a battle.

"Fadeout: won battle" happens after winning a battle.

"Fadeout: exit/flee battle" happens when leaving battle due to running or the "Force battle loss & exit" attack bit or a timer expires. If you died in the battle, the death fadeout is used instead. (The "On Death" battle formation option has no effect.)

